URL :http://research.cs.wisc.edu/dbworld/messages/2012-11/1351969715.html

Posted Date:03-Nov-2012

Posted By :Mariano Rodriguez-Muro

Job Description:


------------------------------------------------------------------------
2 Post-doctoral positions at the Free University of Bozen-Bolzano/Italy
------------------------------------------------------------------------

The KRDB group at the Faculty of Computer Science of the at the Free
University of Bozen-Bolzano/Italy is offering a post-doctoral
position on optimization of SPARQL query answering for Ontology Based
Data Access and Ontology Based Data Integration.

The position is financed by the IP project "Scalable End-user Access
to Big Data (Optique)" within the EU Seventh Framework Programme
(FP7). The position concerns the design and implementation of
optimization techniques for SPARQL query answering over virtual RDF
graphs (R2RML mappings over relational databases).

Absolute requirements for this position are a Ph.D. in computer
science with a strong research track record, testified by
publications in top venues, and including significant implementation
experience. The most desirable research backgrounds are SPARQL and
SQL query optimization, OWL 2 reasoning, including specialized
reasoning for the OWL 2 profiles, and rules. Interested candidates
working on other areas but interested in query optimization are
encouraged to apply.

During this project the applicant will also have the opportunity to
apply the results of their research in challenging industrial use
cases involving reasoning on Big Data, as provided by the Optique
project and the user base of the -ontop- [1] framework for Ontology
Based Data Access.

One position is to start 2013 as early as possible. The second
position is to start on the second quarter of 2013. Both positions
have an initial contract duration of 1 year, with the possibility of
extension up to 4 years.

Additionally, the position comes with a great location, Bolzano [2,3]
The Free University of Bozen-Bolzano is located right in the center
of one of the most beautiful cities in the Alps. The region, South
Tyrol, is among the top destination for Hikers, Mountaineers, Rock
climbers, Skiers, etc. And last, as one would expect from any Italian
location, food in Bolzano is a great.

Interested applicants should get in contact immediately with Prof.
Diego Calvanese (calvanese@inf.unibz.it) and Dr. Mariano Rodriguez
(rodriguez@inf.unibz.it). Please attach a detailed CV including a
list of publications, a statement of interest and up to 3 references
(reference letters will be requested directly from the referees).

[1] http://obda.inf.unibz.it/protege-plugin/
[2] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bolzano
[3] https://www.google.com/search?q=bolzano+italy&prmd=imvns&tbm=isch